# My first... thing



It's like an awful (even worse) version of MS Paint. Maybe. [Give it a shot!](https://cdn.rawgit.com/Magnusaur/aesth-prog/c90f43e9/mini_ex/mini_ex1/p5/empty-example/index.html) Also, try clicking the left mouse button.

## "THE CODE, THE CODE - FIGURE OUT THE CODE!"
I must admit that my first coding project is rather unambitious. That's okay, though. We're just getting started. You can decorate the entire screen with purple circles. If you press the left mouse button, the circle gets bigger and the color changes. Incredible! I think a simple (and 'mechanical') variable like pressing a key or mouse button, could hold a lot of potential. Especially in terms of creating something game-like. I kept things simple and did not dive right into the many possibilities of p5. Feeling a degree of apprehension, I stuck with something conservative: something I at least knew would work.

Even so, the biggest source of frustration, but arguably also learning, was not the act of coding itself, but rather the logistics of uploading stuff on GitHub and discovering the relation between different files, code and the web. Creating repositories, sharing them, making commits: it all takes a bit of getting used to, but I also find the prospect oddly enticing. One thing is typing in words and numbers in Atom, but another is being able to share it with others, working together, fusing different 'branches' of progress. 
How is everything connected? What's the exact relation between an index, a library, the code itself, and so on? I still have much to learn, but I found all of this, this sort of technical or semantic hierarchy, really interesting. 
At first, I thought I might have been able to simply upload the sketch.js or index.html file(s). Perhaps both. But I needed the library as well. Without the library, the code is just a string of symbols. What kind of key or legend should be used to interpret them?

## Natural versus Artifical: The Trial of the Century
In comparing code to natural languages, it could be said the if someone speaks a language, then they possess the underlying 'library' - the repository of 'meaning' that corresponds, however arbitrarily, to certain signs. Natural languages, in a sense, expect a lot from the reader/listener. If I say "the house is blue", then I expect you to know what that means, more or less. There is certainly room for interpretation and this dependence can be a huge source of ambiguity. What house? Literally blue or metaphorically? Certain words have multiple meanings - and multiple words are spelled or pronounced the same way.
Coding, on the other hand, does not appear to allow for such ambiguity. Or rather, ambiguity is certainly possible, in so far as the same piece of code could be (I imagine) interpreted in quite a few different ways, in different contexts. However, to rule out any such confusion, the code is accompanied by its own library - a strict legend or codex to interpret any given string of symbols in exactly one way. So, as far as I can tell, it's not that artificial languages are independent of context: it's just that they're adamant about providing that context in tandem with the 'statement' (the code itself).

## Going forward
I still have lots and lots to learn. Looking at some of the other projects submitted, I can tell that not only are people from class delightfully creative; p5 itself also seems to hold a lot of potential. I look forward to getting further acquainted with the libraries. Comparisongs between natural and artificial languages are commonplace and quite interesting, even if they may ultiamtely prove to be very different things. However, that sense of "uh, how do I say..." when learning a new language is very similar to that of figuring out how to execute a basic function in code. Is all language about function(s)?
